# Recursive-File-Traversal
This algorithm traverses a tree of directories of any dimension

This small project was inspired by an interview question at BlueHost. I have only taken introductory programming classes and but am largely self-educated. When asked the question of how I would go about finding corrupted files in a tree of directories of unknown size and shape, I had never thought about it before. I began by unconfidently writing some psudocode on the whiteboard for a for loop and nervously explained my train of thought. Soon I realized that I would need an infinite number of nested for loops to account for all posible shapes of the tree. The interviewers were more than understanding and upon my submission of temporary defeat, asked if I had ever taken a data structures class. I responded no, and they assured me that I would enjoy the class as it pertains to this problem. I still have not taken a data structures class, but I've since learned about recursive functions. Armed with this coupled with watching the lectures put out by MIT on Algorithms very closely over and over, I started attacking the problem again. After a few hours on a whiteboard in my room and considerable deliberation over the direction in which I should traverse (from root to leaves by layer, from leaves to root by layer, left to right, or by branch) I decided the simplest way to think of it was if I could not see the entire tree at once. Since this is how any algorithm that doesn't already have the structure stored in memory would see it. This led me to realize that I would only need to keep track of how many directories were in the path that I was on. The base case would be that I was at a leaf, or had gone down all branches in front of me. In that case, I check the directory I'm in, and move up. otherwise, keep moving down the branch. This method makes a lot of sense to me, however, it has O(n) checks and θO(2n) moves. I have purposefully not done any research directly in this problem because I wanted to solve it on my own, so now I might find much better ways to do this.
